>> Woodruff: EBOLA IN THE U.S.
THE WHITE HOUSE TRIES TO REIGN
IN CONCERN AS UNCONFIRMED
REPORTS EMERGE OF ADDITIONAL
CASES AND A HAZMAT TEAM RETURNS
TO THE DALLAS APARTMENT OF THE
SOLE CONFIRMED PATIENT.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
THEN, DEBUNKING THE MYTH OF THE
AMERICAN IMMORTAL, WHY ONE
PROMINENT DOCTOR ARGUES AGAINST
THE FIGHT TO LIVE PAST 75.
>> WE'LL LIVE LONGER, BUT WE'LL
ALSO LIVE WITH MORE FUNCTIONAL
LIMITATIONS, LESS ABLE TO MOVE
AROUND, MORE MENTAL LIMITATIONS
SO I THINK WE NEED TO PUT ALL OF
THAT INTO THE WAY WE THINK ABOUT
OLD AGE.
WE'RE NOT GOING TO BE-- I'M NOT
GOING TO BE 75 THE SAME WAY I AM
TODAY AT 57.
>> Woodruff: IN PHILADELPHIA,
THE OVERWHELMING IMPACT ON
STUDENTS OF MASSIVE BUDGET CUTS.
>> YOU KNOW, WE'RE HOPING THAT
MONEY WILL OM
DON'T KNOW.
WE DON'T HAVE ENOUGH TO EVEN
CARRY US THROUGH THE END OF THIS
MONTH, ACTUALLY.
AND IT'S FRIDAY, MARK SHIELDS
AND DAVID BROOKS ARE HERE,
TO ANALYZE THE WEEK'S NEWS.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE STORIES
WE'RE COVERING ON TONIGHT'S "PBS
NEWSHOUR."
>> Woodruff: THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION STEPPED UP ITS
RESPONSE TO EBOLA TODAY, HOPING
TO EASE CONCERNS ABOUT IT
SPREADING IN THE UNITED STATES.
THAT CAME WITH ONE CASE
DIAGNOSED IN DALLAS AND A
CONFIRMED DEATH TOLL IN WEST
AFRICA THAT NOW TOPS 3,400.
>> Woodruff: PRESIDENT OBAMA'S
TEAM CAME TO THE  WHITE HOUSE
BRIEFING ROOM AFTER A WEEK OF
GROWING QUESTIONSUT
AND HOW EBOLA CAN BE STOPPED.
LISA MONACO IS ASSISTANT TO THE
PRESIDENT FOR HOMELAND SECURITY
AND COUNTER-TERRORISM:
>> EVERY EBOLA OUTBREAK OVER THE
PAST 40 YEARS HAS BEEN STOPPED.
WE KNOW HOW TO DO THIS AND WE
WILL DO IT AGAIN WITH AMERICA'S
LEADERSHIP, I AM CONFIDENT AND
PRESIDENT OBAMA IS CONFIDENT
THAT THIS EPIDEMIC WILL ALSO BE
STOPPED.
>> Woodruff: ANTHONY FAUCI, THE
NATION'S TOP EPIDEMIOLOGIST,
ACKNOWLEDGED THERE MAY BE MORE
CASES IN THE UNITED STATES, BUT
HE SAID IT'S NOT A CAUSE FOR
PANIC.
>> WE'RE HAVING THE PRESS
CONFERENCE BECAUSE WE NEED TO
GET INFORMATION OUT BECAUSE
THERE IS A LOT OF FEAR, AND THE
REASON THERE'S A LOT OF FEAR IS
THAT THERE ARE MANY THINGS, WHEN
YOU HAVE OUTBREAKS, IT'S THE
UNKNOWN, IT'S THE CATACLYSMIC
NATURE OF IT -- NAMELY, IT'S
ACUTE, IT KILLS IN A HIGH
PERCENTAGE AND IT KILLS QUICKLY.
THAT IN AND OF ITSELF ALMOST
INTINTUITIVELY MAKES PEOPLE
FRIGHTENED.
THE OTHER THING THAT MAKES
PEOPLE FRIGHTENED, CAN THIS
HAPPEN TO ME WITHOUT MY EVENING
KNOWING IT?
WITHOUT MY HAVING ANY BEHAVIORAL
CHANGE AT ALL?
THAT'S THE KIND OF THING WE HAVE
TO KEEP OVER AND OVER AGAIN
EMPHASIZING, WE RESPECT YOUR
CONCERN, WE UNDERSTAND YOUR
CONCERN, BUT THE EVIDENCE BASE
TELLS US THAT THAT IS NOT GOING
TO HAPPEN.
>> Woodruff: THE OFFICIALS
PLAYED DOWN ANY NEED FOR A
COMPLETE BAN ON TRAVELERS FROM
AFFECTED NATIONS IN WEST AFRICA.
THEY SAID SCREENING EFFORTS
THERE ARE WORKING.
>> AS MEASURES BEING TAKEN TO
SCREEN INDIVIDUALS DEPARTING,
CDC HAS PROVIDED ASSISTANCE,
TRAINING AND ADVICE TO OFFICIALS
IN LIBERIA, GUINEA AND SIERRA
LEONE, AND AS A RESULTS OFSTEPS
UNDERTAKEN,
MANY, MANY PEOPLE HAVE BEEN
STOPPED FROM TRAVELING.
WE SEE THOSE STEPS ACTUALLY
BEING EFFECTIVE
>> Woodruff: ALSO TODAY, THE
PENTAGON UPPED THE NUMBER OF
U.S. TROOPS IT'S SENDING TO WEST
AFRICA, TO AS MANY AS 4,000.
>> Woodruff: WE'LL RETURN TO THE
CASE OF THE LIBERIAN MAN
HOSPITALIZED IN DALLAS AND FEARS
OF ADDITIONAL CASES, AFTER THE
NEWS SUMMARY.
ISLAMIC STATE MILITANTS CLAIMED
LATE TODAY THEY HAVE CARRIED OUT
YET ANOTHER BEHEADING, OF A
FOURTH WESTERN HOSTAGE.
THEY RELEASED A VIDEO TODAY,
APPARENTLY SHOWING THE MURDER OF
ALAN HENNING, A BRITISH AID
WORKER WHO WAS TAKEN CAPTIVE
LAST DECEMBER IN SYRIA.
HE  WOULD BE THE SECOND BRITISH
HOSTAGE KILLED, ALONG WITH TWO
AMERICAN REPORTERS.
JOB CREATION IN THE U.S. JUMPED
IN SEPTEMBER, MAKING THE
EMPLOYMENT PICTURE THE BRIGHTEST
IT'S BEEN IN SIX YEARS.
THE LABOR DEPARTMENT REPORTED
TODAY THAT EMPLOYERS ADDED A NET
248,000 WORKERS.
AND THE JOBLESS RATE DROPPED
BELOW 6% FOR THE FIRST TIME
SINCE MID-2008.
PRESIDENT OBAMA WELCOMED THE
NEWS THIS AFTERNOON AT A STEEL
PLANT IN PRINCETON, INDIANA.
>> THIS PROGRESS THAT WE'VE BEEN
MAKING, IT'S BEEN HARD, IT GOES
IN FITS AND STARTS.
IT'S NOT ALWAYS BEEN PERFECTLY
SMOOTH OR AS FAST AS WE WANT,
BUT IT IS REAL AND IT IS STEADY
AND IT IS HAPPENING.
AND IT'S MAKING DIFFERENCE IN
ECONOMIES ALL ACROSS COUNTRY.
>> Woodruff: OUR PAUL SOLMAN
EXPLORES WHAT THESE NUMBERS
REVEAL ABOUT THE TRUE HEALTH OF
OUR ECONOMY, LATER IN THE
PROGRAM.
THE JOBS NUMBERS WENT DOWN WELL
ON WALL STREET.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED 208 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
17,009.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 45 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 4,475.
AND THE S-AND-P 500 ADDED 21, TO
FINISH NEAR 1,968.
FOR THE WEEK, ALL THREE INDEXES
LOST A FRACTION OF 1%.
VIOLENCE ERUPTED TODAY IN HONG
KONG, WHERE PROTESTERS DEMANDING
MORE DEMOCRACY HAVE TAKEN TO THE
STREETS AND TIED UP PARTS OF THE
CITY SINCE SUNDAY.
LUCY WATSON, OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS, REPORTS AGAIN
FROM HONG KONG.
>> Reporter: IT WAS A
TINDERBOX IN THE HEART OF THE
HONG KONG SHOPPING AREA.
(SHOUTING)
THE YOUTH WHO CRAVE DEMOCRACY
ARE CONFRONTED WITH FURY.
OTHERS WANT THEIR STREETS BACK.
OUR COPS ARE WORLD CLASS BUT
WHEN THEY FIRED TEAR GAS AT
STUDENTS, THEY DIDN'T USE
ENOUGH.
CLEAR OUT!
YELLED THE PEOPLE AGAINST THE
PRO DEMOCRACY MOVEMENT, AS THEY
TORE DOWN AND ONE BY ONE
DISAPPEARED.
THIS IS THE PEOPLE AGAINST THE
PEOPLE, FACE TO FACE.
WHILE POLICE TRIED TO MAINTAIN
ORDER.
>> WE WERE HOPING THEY WOULD
CALM DOWN.
>> Reporter: THE MEDIA OF
HONG KONG DESCRIBED THIS AS
ANARCHY, BUT THEY NERVOUSLY HELD
THEIR LINE ALL DAY AND NIGHT.
(SHOUTING)
>> Reporter: HOLD THE FORT,
STUDENTS SHOUT, HOLD THE FORT,
BECAUSE THEY BELIEVE VIOLENCE IS
ENGINEERED BY THE PRESIDENT AND
SHOULD BE HELD RESPONSIBLE.
IS REVOLUTION IS UNDER PRESSUR
>> Woodruff: A MAIN STUDENT
GROUP BEHIND THE PROTEST
MOVEMENT SAID LATER IT'S PULLING
OUT OF PLANNED TALKS WITH HONG
KONG'S GOVERNMENT.
BACK IN THIS COUNTRY, AN UPDATE
ON A STORY WE BROUGHT YOU LAST
NIGHT
STUDENTS AND PARENTS IN SUBURBAN
DENVER SAY THEY'LL RESUME
PROTESTS AGAINST NEW STANDARDS
FOR SOME U.S. HISTORY CLASSES.
CONSERVATIVES ON THE JEFFERSON
COUNTY SCHOOL BOARD REFUSED LAST
NIGHT TO CANCEL PLANS TO REVIEW
THE CURRICULUM.
THEY WANT THE MATERIAL TO
PROMOTE "PATRIOTISM" AND
"RESPECT FOR AUTHORITY."
STUDENTS SAID IT AMOUNTS TO
CENSORSHIP.
>> WE CAME TO THESE CONCLUSIONS
ON OUR OWN AND WE HAVE 40,000
PEOPLE ACROSS THE COUNTRY WHO
SIDED WITH US IN SAYING THAT
THIS IS WRONG FOR JEFFERSON
COUNTY.
THIS WRONG FOR US AS STUDENTS,
THIS IS WRONG FOR AMERICAN
HISTORY.
>> Woodruff: THE BOARD'S
CONSERVATIVES DENIED IT'S ABOUT
CENSORSHIP.
AND, THEY SAID THEY'RE LOOKING
FOR COMPROMISE.
>> I HAVE GREAT HOPE THAT OUR
CONVERSATION THIS EVENING WILL
BRING THIS BOARD TOGETHER AND
HAVE US WORK ON A GREAT PROPOSAL
THAT ASSURES OUR COMMUNITY THAT
ALL CLASSES ARE TAUGHT WITH
BALANCE, THAT WE OPPOSE ALL
CENSORSHIP.
WE WANT INCREASED TRANSPARENCY,
INCREASED ACCOUNTABILITY, AND
INCREASED COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT.
>> Woodruff: THE BOARD
COMPROMISED SOMEWHAT AND VOTED
TO ADD STUDENTS AND PARENTS TO
THE REVIEW COMMITTEES.
IT'S SUPPOSED TO BE FALL, BUT
YOU WOULDN'T KNOW IT IN SOUTHERN
CALIFORNIA.
A HEAT WAVE KICKED REGIONAL
TEMPERATURES NEAR OR ABOVE 100
DEGREES AGAIN TODAY.
LOS ANGELES COUNTY HAS OPENED
DOZENS OF COOLING CENTERS.
AND, SOME SCHOOL DISTRICTS ALSO
SENT STUDENTS HOME EARLY TO BEAT
THE HEAT.
>> Woodruff: STILL TO COME ON
THE NEWSHOUR:
HOW ARE HEALTH OFFICIALS
HANDLING EBOLA IN THE U.S.?
ISLAMIC STATE MILITANTS FIGHT TO
CONTROL A KEY CITY NEAR TURKEY;
WHY GOOD ECONOMIC NUMBERS DON'T
ADD UP TO AMERICANS FEELING
BETTER ABOUT THEIR OWN POCKET
BOOKS;
A PROMINENT DOCTOR'S
CONTROVERSIAL STANCE ON LIVING
LONGER;
PHILADELPHIA SCHOOLS FACE A
CRIPPLING BUDGET CRISIS;
AND MARK SHIELDS AND DAVID
BROOKS ANALYZE THE WEEK'S NEWS.
>> Woodruff: EVEN AS TOP
ADMINISTRATION OFFICIALS WERE
ANSWERING QUESTIONS AT THE WHITE
HOUSE ABOUT THE FEDERAL RESPONSE
TO EBOLA, MUCH OF THIS DAY'S
ATTENTION WAS FOCUSED ON THE
LATEST DEVELOPMENTS IN TEXAS.
HARI SREENIVASAN HAS THE STORY.
>> Sreenivasan: A HAZARDOUS
MATERIALS TEAM ARRIVED THIS
MORNING AT THE DALLAS APARTMENT
COMPLEX WHERE THOMAS DUNCAN
STAYED BEFORE BEING HOSPITALIZED
ON SUNDAY.
THEY COLLECTED ANYTHING
CONTAMINATED, INCLUDING A CAR
THAT THEY COVERED WITH A GIANT
PLASTIC BAG.
AVE BEEN QUARANTINED UNDER
ARMED GUARD AFTER THEY REFUSED
TO REMAIN INSIDE VOLUNTARILY.
>> NOBODY IS SUPPOSED TO GO
INSIDE THE APARTMENT.
THEY ARE IN THE APARTMENT.
THEY CANNOT COME OUT, THEY ARE
NOT EVEN ALLOWED TO COME ON THE
PORCH.
>> Woodruff: DALLAS COUNTY JUDGE
CLAY JENKINS, THE COUNTY'S TOP
ADMINISTRATOR, VOICED CONCERN
FOR THE FAMILY'S PLIGHT AND
APOLOGIZED FOR THE DELAY IN
REMOVING THE SOILED ITEMS.
MEANWHILE, TEXAS HEALTH
OFFICIALS SAID THEY'VE NARROWED
THE GROUP BEING MONITORED TO 50
PEOPLE WHO HAD DIRECT OR
INDIRECT CONTACT WITH DUNCAN.
CREWS HAVE ALSO CLEANED SCHOOLS
ATTENDED BY FIVE STUDENTS WHO
WERE EXPOSED TO DUNCAN.
BUT SOME PARENTS SAY THEY'RE FAR
FROM REASSURED.
>> AND THEN WE JUST GOT LETTERS
IN THE KIDS BACKPACK YESTERDAY
SAYING THEY HAD IT UNDER
CONTROL.
I FEEL OTHERWISE.
IF YOU HAD IT UNDER CONTROL THE
KIDS WOULDN'T HAVE COME TO
SCHOOL IN THE FIRST PLACE, BUT
YOU'LL NEVER KNOW.
>> Woodruff: QUESTIONS CONTINUE
AS WELL ABOUT THE HANDLING OF
DUNCAN HIMSELF.
HE MANAGED TO FLY OUT OF LIBERIA
LAST MONTH AFTER HAVING CONTACT
WITH AN EBOLA PATIENT.
HE SHOWED NO SYMPTOMS AT THE
TIME.
AFTER FALLING ILL IN DALLAS, HE
WAS INITIALLY TURNED AWAY BY
TEXAS HEALTH PRESBYTERIAN
HOSPITAL, WHICH NOW BLAMES A
FLAW IN ITS ELECTRONIC RECORDS
SYSTEM.
DUNCAN WAS ADMITTED ON SUNDAY,
BUT EVEN THEN, HIS NEPHEW
COMPLAINED HE WAS MISHANDLED.
>> Woodruff: AT THE NATIONAL
INSTITUTE OF ALLERGY AND
INFECTIOUS DISEASES, DR. ANTHONY
FAUCI SAYS HE AGREES.
>> THE IDEA THAT THIS PERSON
WENT TO AN EMERGENCY ROOM AND
THEY DID NOT FLAG THAT HE HAD
RECENTLY BEEN IN LIBERIA AND
THUS IMMEDIATELY PUT HIM IN
ISOLATION WAS UNFORTUNATELY
MISSED.
THAT HAPPENS.
I THINK THE IMPORTANT THING IS
TO HAVE THAT AS A LESSON LEARNED
TO LOOK FORWARD.
>> Sreenivasan: INFECTED
HOSPITAL WASTE HAS ALSO BECOME
AN ISSUE.
DALLAS OFFICIALS ANNOUNCED TODAY
A DISPOSAL COMPANY IS NOW IN
PLACE.
>> Sreenivasan: THIS WAS A DAY
WHEN EVEN ONE OF THE
GOVERNMENT'S TOP HEALTH
OFFICIALS SAID, "THERE WERE
THINGS THAT DID NOT GO THE WAY
THEY SHOULD HAVE."
WE LOOK AT THOSE CONCERNS AND
OTHER MOVES BY THE GOVERNMENT
WITH STEPHEN MORRISON, THE
DIRECTOR OF THE GLOBAL HEALTH
POLICY CENTER AT THE CENTER FOR
STRATEGIC AND INTERNATIONAL
STUDIES.
MR. MORRISON, LET'S TALK A
LITTLE BIT ABOUT THE LESSONS
LEARNED ANTHONY FAUCI WAS
TALKING ABOUT.
WE DON'T KNOW EVERYTHING YET
ABOUT WHAT'S HAPPENED IN DALLAS,
BUT WHAT CAN WE TAKE AWAY FROM
THE WAY THAT THE HOSPITAL AND
THE REGION AND THE LOCAL
AUTHORITIES HANDLED THIS?
>> WELL, WE KNOW FROM WHAT
YOU'VE JUST REPORTED THAT THERE
WERE MISHAPS IN THE SYSTEMS AT
VARIOUS POINTS, AND THERE'S A
NEED FOR A MUCH HIGHER VIGILANCE
AND TRAINING AND AWARENESS.
I DON'T THINK, IN RETROSPECT,
THAT THIS IS ALL THAT SURPRISING
THAT YOU HAVE A SUDDEN
INTRODUCTION AS SOMETHING AS
LETHAL AND DANGEROUS AS THIS
INTO AN UNEXPECTED ENVIRONMENT
AND THEN THAT YOU HAVE MISHAPS
THAT HAPPEN ALONG THE REPORTING
AT THE DESK WHEN HE FIRST
REPORTS TO THE PRESBYTERIAN
HOSPITAL THAT THERE'S
MISHANDLING OF THE WASTE
MATERIAL LATER WHEN HE SHOWS UP,
THAT THERE'S CLUMSINESS IN THE
WAY THE FAMILY IS -- THAT HAD
BEEN EXPOSED IS HANDLED.
I THINK THESE ARE SERIOUS
LESSONS, AND THE SYSTEMS WILL
HAVE TO IMPROVE AS WE GET
ADDITIONAL CASES, WHICH ARE
QUITE PROBABLE.
>> Sreenivasan: THE GOVERNMENT
SAYS THEY HAVE BEEN TRYING TO
PREPARE PEOPLE FOR MONTHS, BUT
WHAT DOES THIS SAY ABOUT THE
STATE OF HOSPITAL READINESS
AROUND THE UNITED STATES, UNTIL
WE HAD THIS SITUATION HAPPENING
IN DALLAS, AND NOW WE'RE HEARING
ABOUT NOT QUITE CONFIRMED CASES
IN OTHER CITIES?
>> I WOULD NOT DRAW THE
CONCLUSION THAT PRESBYTERIAN WAS
NOT WELL PREPARED.
THEY HAD THEMSELVES, JUST A WEEK
AGO, GONE THROUGH AN EXTENSIVE
INTERNAL TRAINING.
THEY HAD CREATED AN ISOLATION
UNIT WITHIN THEIR I.C.U.
THEY HAD THE SYSTEMS IN PLACE.IA
CATASTROPHIC FAILURE.
I THINK THERE WERE MISHAPS ALONG
THE WAY, AND ANXIETIES AT THE
PUBLIC LEVEL WERE SO HIGH
BECAUSE OF THE LETHAL TYE OFITYS
AND BECAUSE IT'S SUCH AN ALIEN
AND FRIGHTENING EVENT THAT THESE
MISHAPS BECAME QUITE MAGNIFIED
AND WILL HAVE TO BE HANDLED
DIFFERENTLY AND BETTER IN THE
FUTURE.
>> Sreenivasan: PARTLY BECAUSE
TO HAVE THE FEAR YOU'RE
REFERENCING AND THE CONCERN THAT
THE PEOPLE IN THE REGION OR THE
AREA HAVE, IS CONTAINMENT OR
ISOLATION EVEN POSSIBLE?
BECAUSE ONE CAN UNDERSTAND THE
FAMILIES' CONCERNS SAYING YOU'RE
QUARANTINING ME INSIDE AN
APARTMENT THAT APPARENTLY HAS A
DEADLY VIRUS THE WHOLE WORLD IS
CONCERNED ABOUT AND NO ONE'S
EVEN COME AND CHANGED THE SHEETS
YET?
>> WELL, THEY'VE RELOCATED THE
FAMILY MEMBERS WHO WERE EXPOSED
AND QUARANTINED AND THE COUNTY
JUDGE, MR. JENKINS, APOLOGIZED
FOR THE WAY THAT WASDL
AS WE GET INTO CASES WHERE THERE
HAS BEEN AN IMPORTATION OF
SOMEONE CONTAGIOUS WITH EBOLA
WHO EXPOSES OTHERS, I WOULD
EXPECT YOU'RE GOING TO SEE A
MUCH MORE RAPID AND HUMANE
PROCEDURE IN PLACE.
THIS WAS A MOMENT OF PRETTY
INTENSIVE LEARNING THIS WEEK.
>> Sreenivasan: ONE OF THE
THINGS PEOPLE ARE ALSO TALKING
ABOUT IS TRYING TO CONTAIN IT AT
THE SOURCE.
THE PENTAGON IS GOING TO
INCREASE THE NUMBER OF TROOPS
GOING THERE, BUT, OF COURSE, WE
HAVE POLITICIANS AND OTHERS
SAYING LET'S TRY TO FIGURE OUT
HOW TO CHANGE THE POLICY ON
CHANGING THE FLIGHT BAN.
IS THAT A POLICY THAT SHOULD BE
LOOKED AT AGAIN?
>> THIS IS A VERY DIFFICULT
ISSUE.
WHAT WE SAW WITH DUNCAN COMING
HERE WAS THAT THE SCREENING
PROCEDURES ARE NOT ALL THAT
EFFECTIVE IF YOU WERE
UNSYMPTOMATIC AND YOU DON'T
PERSONALLY AND VOLUNTARILY
DISCLOSE.
SO WHAT DO YOU DO UNDER THOSE
INSTANCES?
YOU CANNOT INSIST ON PRIOR
VACCINATION BECAUSE THERE IS
NOVAK SEEN, THERE IS NO RAPID
TEST.
THE ONLY THING YOU CAN BEGIN TO
CONSIDER IS A 21-DAY QUARANTINE
PERIOD FOR PEOPLE COMING OUT OF
THE WORST AFFECTED AREAS, AND
HOW YOU WOULD IMPLEMENT THAT HAS
YET TO BE REALLY CONSIDERED.
BUT THAT, REALLY, I THINK IS THE
ONLY OPTION AT THIS MOMENT THAT
COULD BE CONSIDERED.
AND I WANT TO ADD HERE, THE
HUMANITARIAN WORKERS WHO ARE
COMING IN, BOTH THOSE THAT ARE
NATIONALS AND GETTING TRAINED UP
AND PROVIDING CARE AND TREATMENT
IN EXILE, THE EXTERNAL EX
PATRIOT FOLKS, WHEN THEY ARE
REMOVED BECAUSE OF EXPOSURE,
THEY GO THROUGH A 21-DAY
QUARANTINE PERIOD COMING OUT OF
THE REGION.
THERE'S ALREADY PRACTICES IN
PLACE AROUND THAT.
>> Sreenivasan: STEPHEN
MORRISON, THANKS SO MUCH FOR
YOUR TIME.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: WE REPORTED EARLIER
ON TODAY'S REPORTED BEHEADING OF
ANOTHER HOSTAGE BY THE ISLAMIC
STATE GROUP, THIS COMES AS ITS
TERRORISTS CONTINUED TO ADVANCE
ON AND SHELL THE BESEIGED
KURDISH TOWN OF KOBANI, ALONG
SYRIA'S BORDER WITH TURKEY.
THE MILITANTS' PUSH IS HAPPENING
DESPITE CONTINUED AIR-STRIKES BY
THE U.S. AND OTHER ANTI I.S.
COALITION MEMBERS.
FOR MORE, WE ARE JOINED BY OUR
CHIEF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
CORRESPONDENT MARGARET WARNER.
MARGARET, WELL COME.
WE DID REPORT ON THIS ANOTHER
TERRIBLE MURDER OF A HOSTAGE,
AND JUST NOW RECEIVED A
STATEMENT BY THE PRESIDENT
CONDEMNING WHAT'S HAPPENED BUT
HE'S ALSO SAYING THESE
AIRSTRIKES WILL CONTINUE.
ARE THEY DOING ANY GOOD IF THESE
BEHEADINGS ARE ALSO CONTINUING?
>> LOOKING ON THE SITUATION ON
THE GROUND IN IRAQ AND SYRIA,
THEY HAVE STARTED TO STOP THE
I.S.I.S. ADVANCE BUT NOT ROLLED
THEM BACK, AND SYRIA OBVIOUSLY
FROM THE BEHEADING VIDEO, THE
I.S.I.S. PEOPLE AREN'T DEFERRED.
THE KURDISH MILITIAMEN ARE
BEGGING FOR HELP ON THE GROUND
BUT THE WHITE HOUSE REMAINS
FOCUSED ON LONG-RANGE TRAINING
OF THE MODERATE SYRIAN
ANTI-I.S.I.S. FIGHTERS.
THEY ANNOUNCED AUSTRALIA AND
DENMARK WERE GOING TO SEND
FIGHTER PLANES.
THE MISSING PIECE REMAINS
TURKEY, THE KEY N.A.T.O. ALLY ON
THE BOARDER.
DESPITE A PERSONAL PHONE CALL
FROM PRESIDENT OBAMA, THEY
REMAIN RELUCTANT TO GET ENGAGED.
>> Woodruff: WHY?
IT'S COMPLICATED.
PRESIDENTHE PRESIDENT OF TURKEYS
GOVERNMENT HAS ALLOWED SAFE
AFE HAVEN TO ALL
KIND OF FIGHTERS STARTING WITH
THE MODERATE ONES UP TO THE I.S.
TYPES AND A LOT OF THE NEIGHBORS
ARE FURIOUS ABOUT TND SAY
THEY HELPED CREATE THE MESS.
THE PRESIDENT OF TURKEY BELIEVES
IF THEY WEIGH IN AGAINST
I.S.I.S., IT WILL HELP ASSAD AND
PRESIDENT OBAMA IS NOT GOING
THERE.
THEY HAVE A COMPLICATED
RELATIONSHIP WITH THE KURDS.
THEY HAVE A LONG RUNNING CIVIL
WAR WITH THE P.K.K.
JUST YESTERDAY THE JAILED LEADER
OF THE P.K.K. THREATENED IF YOU
DON'T SAVE KOBANI, WE'RE GOING
TO CUT OFF PEACE TALKS WITH YOU.
THE PRIME MINISTER TODAY
PROMISED THEY WOULD DO WHAT THEY
COULD TO SAVE KOBANI BUT ARE
KEEPING P.K.K. FIGHTERS FROM
CROSSING INTO TURKEY AND
STOPPING WITH WATER CANNONS AND
TEAR GAS.
>> Woodruff: NO INDICATION
THIS IS GOING TO CHANGE?
>> NOT FOR NOW.
THEY ARE ABSOLUTELY APP P APPAPC
ABOUT THEIR SITUATION WITH THE
KURDS.
THEY STRADDLE FOUR COUNTRIES AND
THE MORE THESE KURDISH FIGHTERS
WORK TOGETHER AND ARE EMBOLDEN,
IT WILL INCREASE PRO SENTIMENT
FOR AN INDEPENDENT KURDISTAN.
>> Woodruff: A BIGGER CONCERN
THAN I.S.I.S.
>> APPARENTLY.
IT'S ALWAYS A MOVING TARGET,
BUT, YES, FOR NOW.
>> Woodruff: MARGARET WARNER,
THANK YOU AS ALWAYS.
>> Woodruff: FOR THE FIRST TIME
SINCE 2008, THE JOBLESS RATE HAS
FALLEN BELOW 6%.
THAT FACT WAS PART OF A JOBS
REPORT OUT TODAY THAT SHOWED A
BETTER REBOUND IN THE LABOR
MARKET THAN HAD BEEN EXPECTED
EVEN A MONTH AGO.
ECONOMICS CORRESPONDENT PAUL
SOLMAN WENT TO THE HEART OF
BOSTON'S FINANCIAL DISTRICT TO
DISCUSS THE NUMBERS WITH
ECONOMIST BARRY BLUESTONE, AS
PART OF PAUL'S ONGOING
REPORTING: "MAKING SENSE OF
FINANCIAL NEWS."
>> SO WE'RE IN BOSTON'S
FINANCIAL DISTRICT AND TODAY'S
JOB REPORT IS REALLY GOOD NEWS
TO THE ECONOMY AT LONG LAST.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
WE HAD ALMOST A QUARTER OF A
MILLION JOBS CREATED IN
SEPTEMBER ALONE.
WE HAVE MORE JOBS COMING FOR THE
LAST 12 MONTHS.
AS A RESULT, WE HAVE NO LONGER
THE KIND OF JOBLESS RECOVERY WE
HAD IN YEARS PAST.
THAT'S REAL GOOD NEWS.
>> Reporter: AND FINANCIAL
SERVICES, FOR EXAMPLE, 81,000
JOBS, I READ THIS MORNING, WERE
ADDED JUST LAST MONTH.
>> AS A MATTER OF FACT, WE HAD
GROWTH IN ALMOST ALL SECTORS --
INFORMATION SERVICES,
HEALTHCARE, EDUCATION,
CONSTRUCTION, MANUFACTURING'S
BEEN GROWING OVER THE LAST YEARD
GROWTH IN JOBS AND NOW WE HAVE
THE NUMBERS TO SHOW US WE'RE ON
OUR WAY BACK TO A STRONGER AND
STRONGER ECONOMY.
>> Reporter: ARE THE REGIONAL
POCKETS BETTER IN ONE PLACE THAN
THE OTHER.
>> WE HAVE MUCH LOWER
UNEMPLOYMENT IN SOME AREAS.
NEW HAMPSHIRE AND SOME AREAS
OVER 7 AND 8% BUT THEY'RE DOWN
FROM 10, 20, 13% IN SOME OF
THOSE AREAS.
SO THAT'S IMPROVEMENT.
>> Reporter: IN MY EXPERIENCE
WITH ECONOMISTS, THERE'S ALWAYS
A "ON THE OTHER HAND."
NOT THIS TIME?
>> NO, THERE'S A "BUT" HERE.
WHILE JOBS ARE UP, WAGES HAVEN'T
RISEN AT ALL.
IN SOME SECTORS THEY ARE UP,
THEY'RE UP IN INFORMATIONCES, F.
BUT IN OTHER SECTORS THEY AREN'T
KEEPING UP WITH INFLATION --
MANUFACTURING, RESTAURANT,
HOSPITALITY AND THE HEALTHCARE
SECTOR.
>> Reporter: BUT YOU'RE
TALKING ABOUT WAGES ON AN
ANNUALIZED BASIS BASED ON THIS
PAST MONTH'S NUMBERS, AND IT'S
JUST ONE MONTH, SO HOW
SIGNIFICANT CAN IT BE?
>> ONE MONTH DOESN'T TELL US
VERY MUCH.
WE HAVE TO HAVE MANY MORE MONTHS
OF DATA.
THE FACT IS OVER THE LAST FIVE
YEARS, WAGES HAVEN'T BEEN RISING
FOR MOST WORKERS IN AMERICA.
>> Reporter: BUT THESE ARE
BETTER NUMBERS TODAY THAN YOU
EXPECTED, RIGHT?
>> INDEED, THESE ARE VERY GOOD
NUMBERS.
ALMOST A QUARTER MILLION JOBS IN
A SINGLE MONTH, THAT'S REAL
GOOD.
OUR UNEMPLOYMENT IS DOWN BELOW
6% AND WE COULD GET DOWN TO 5.5,
5.4, 5.3 WITHIN THE NEXT YEAR.
>> Woodruff: NEXT, A PROVOCATIVE
PIECE OF WRITING FROM ONE OF THE
COUNTRY'S LEADING HEALTH CARE
EXPERTS.
IN THE CURRENT "ATLANTIC
MAGAZINE," DR. EZEKIEL EMANUEL
ARGUES THAT THE QUALITY OF HUMAN
LIFE BEGINS TO DROP OFF BY AGE
75, ENOUGH, HE SAYS, THAT HE
WILL OPT OUT OF MEDICAL
TREATMENTS AND LET NATURE TAKE
ITS COURSE.
A TRAINED ONCOLOGIST, DR.
EMANUEL IS CHAIR OF THE
DEPARTMENT OF MEDICAL ETHICS AND
HEALTH POLICY AT THE UNIVERSITY
OF PENNSYLVANIA, AND A FORMER
OBAMA ADMINISTRATION POLICY
ADVISER.
HE IS ALSO OLDER BROTHER TO
CHICAGO MAYOR RAHM EMANUEL AND
HOLLYWOOD NT AGENT ARI
EMANUAL.
I SAT DOWN WITH HIM EARLIER
TODAY.
DR. EZEKIEL EMANUEL, THANK YOU
FOR TALKING WITH US.
>> IT'S MY GREAT PLEASURE.
>> Woodruff: YOU CREATED QUITE
A STIR, WHY I WANT TO DIE AT 75.
WHY AT 75?
WHY NOT 85?
WHY NOT 70?
>> FIRST OF ALL, LET'S CLARIFY,
I EXPECT TO BE ALIVE AT 75 AND
I'M NOT GOING TO KILL MYSELF, I
DON'T BELIEVE IN LEGALIZED
EUTHANASIA OR ASSISTED SUICIDE,
BUT I AM GOING TO STOP MEDICAL
TREATMENTS.
WHEN I LOOK AT 75, ALL THE DATA
ON PHYSICAL DISABILITY,
DEMENTIA, ALZHEIMER'S, LOSS OF
CREATIVITY, SLOWING DOWN OF THE
MIND AND BODY, AND 75 SEEMS LIKE
THAT, ALBEIT SOMEWHAT ARBITRARY
MOMENT WHERE YOU GET THE MAXIMUM
CHANCE YOU'RE STILL GOING TO BE
VITAL AND ALIVE AND VIGOROUS.
>> SO IT'S KIND OF ARBITRARY.
I SAY THAT, YES.
>> Woodruff: AND YOU TALK
ABOUT SOMETHING YOU CALL THE
AMERICAN IMMORTAL.
WHO IS THIS BEING?
>> MY BROTHER!
THE AMERICAN IMMORTAL ARE PEOPLE
WHO WANT TO PUT OFF DEATH AS
LONG AS POSSIBLE, WANT TO LIVE
AS LONG AS POSSIBLE, GET EVERY
DAY OUT OF IT.
THEY TAKE ALL THESE -- THEY
CHANGE THEIR DIET, THEY EXERCISE
LIKE MAD, THAT TAKE PROTEIN
CONCOCTIONS AND ALL SORTS OF
OTHER SUPPLEMENTS AND IT'S
ALMOST A RELIGION FOR THEM TO
LIVE AS LONG AS POSSIBLE AND I
THINK THEY, IN THEIR MIND, THEY
WILL BE AS VITAL AS THEY ARE
WHEN THEY'RE, SAY, 50 ALL THE
WAY TO THE END.
BUT, OF COURSE, WE ALL DO
DETERIORATE AND SLOW DOWN AND
GET DISABILITIES.
>> Woodruff: YOU LOOKED AT A
LOT OF RESEARCH FOR WHAT YOU'VE
WRITTEN AND YOU TALK ABOUT HOW,
AS YOU AGE, YOU REALLY DON'T GET
HEALTHY.
NO MATTER HOW HARD YOU TRY, A
LOT OF THINGS CREEP UP ON YOU.
>> YEAH, SO THERE'S A THEORY
WHICH WAS DEVELOPED IN THE EARLY
1980s AT STANFORD, OF COURSE,
THAT THERE WILL BE A COMPRESSION
OF MORBIDITY.
AS WE AGE AND GET OLDER WE'LL
ACTUALLY BECOME HEALTHIER, THAT
FALLING APART, THE DISABILITY,
THE DEMENTIA, THEY'RE GOING TO
BE EVER SMALLER PARTS OF LIFE.
AND THAT WAS A VERY, VERY
COMPELLING THEORY AND A LOT OF
PEOPLE GRABBED ON TO IT.
TURNS OUT THAT'S NOT TRUE.
THE DATA ARE THAT, AS WE AGE,
WE'VE ACTUALLY ADD MORE YEARS OF
DISABILITY, SO THERE'S NOT A
COMPRESSION OF MORBIDITY,
THERE'S ACTUALLY BEEN AN
EXPANSION, AND THAT I THINK IS
SOMEWHAT DISTRACTING FOR PEOPLE
TO REALIZE, YES, WE'LL LIVE
LONGER BUT WITH MORE FUNCTIONAL
LIMITATIONS, LESS ABLE TO MOVE
AROUND, MORE MENTAL LIMITATIONS,
MORE PSYCHOLOGICAL DEPRESSION
AND OTHER MENTAL PROBLEMS.
>> Woodruff: YOU'RE IT FROM
CRITICAL IN THIS PIECE, EZEKIEL
EMANUEL, OF SLOWING DOWN, OF
LIVING A QUIETER LIFE, OF
SPENDING TIME SMELLING THE
ROSES.
(LAUGHTER)
YOU TALK ABOUT RIDING A BICYCLE
AND MAKING POETRY AS IF IT'S KN.
WHAT'S WRONG WITH HAVING THAT
QUIET PHASE OF LIFE AT A CERTAIN
POINT?
>> I MEAN, THAT IS PART OF MY
VIEW THAT, YOU KNOW, WE'RE ON
THE EARTH FOR A VERY SHORT
PERIOD OF TIME, NO MATTER WHAT
WE DO, EVEN IF WE'RE AN AMERICAN
AND IMMORTING, IT'S NOT GOING TO
BE FOR CENTURIES, BUT WE HAVE TO
GET THE BEST OUT OF OUR LIFE.
IT'S A PRIVILEGE SLOWING DOWN
AND BEING A LITTLE
SELF-INDULGENT.
I DON'T FIND THAT AS MEANINGFUL
TO ME, AND I FIND IT A LITTLE
SORT OF FOCUSED ON ME INSTEAD OF
FOCUSED ON WHAT I CAN CONTRIBUTE
AND WHAT I CAN DO FOR BETTERING
THE WORLD AND BETTERING, YOU
KNOW, MY FAMILY AND MY
COMMUNITY.
>> Reporter: SO YOU'RE KIND OF
SAYING UNLESS YOU'RE
CONTRIBUTING ACTIVELY EVERY
MINUTE OF EVERY DAY,
PRACTICALLY, THEN THERE'S NOT
MUCH POINT IN LIVING?
>> FIRST OF ALL, THAT'S MY
PERSONAL PHILOSOPHY, AND I DO
BELIEVE CONTRIBUTING CAN HAPPEN
IN A NUMBER OF DIFFERENT WAYS.
>> Woodruff: YOU KNOW THERE'S
A LOT OF PUSHBACK WHO POINT TO
ALL THE PEOPLE WE KNOW OF WHO
ARE VERY CONTRIBUTING WELL
BEYOND 75.
YOU LOOK AT ANYWHERE YOU TURN.
I MEAN, IN THE WORLD OF
ENTERTAINMENT, IT'S SO EASY.
>> THE JACK NICKELS, WILLIE
NELSONS, SIDNEY POITIER, BETTY
WHITE IS 91, QUEEN ELIZABETH IS
88, JIMMY CARTER JUST TURNED 90.
>> THAT'S ALMOST EVERYONE'S
FIRST REACTION IS TO BEGIN
LISTING LOTS AND LOTS OF PEOPLE
WHO ARE OVER 75 AND STILL
CREATIVE, PRODUCTIVE AND ENGAGED
AND OF CE  GOING TO
BE SOME PEOPLE.
IT'S A BELL-SHAPED CURVE AND
THERE WILL BE OUTLIERS OF PEOPLE
OVER 75.
BUT LET'S REMEMBER WE LIVE IN A
COUNTRY OF 300 MILLION PEOPLE
IN.
THE DEVELOPED WESTERN WORLD
THERE MAY BE A BILLION PEOPLE.
GIVING ME A LIST OF 20, 30, EVEN
THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE CREATIVE
AFTER 75, YOU HAVE TO UNDERSTAND
THOSE ARE VERY SELECT OUTLIERS.
THEY ARE NOT THE COMMON THING.
AND I BELIEVE THAT WE
SHOULDN'T -- WE CAN'T LIVE OUR
LIFE AS IF WE'RE GOING TO BE A
VERY RARE OUTLIER.
ODDS ARE, YOU WON'T BE AN
OUTLIER, AND I TEND TO GO WITH
THE ODDS.
I LIVE LIFE BY, YOU KNOW, WHAT
DOES THE DATA SHOW?
AND THAT'S MOST LIKELY TO
HAPPEN.
>> Woodruff: WHAT DOES YOUR
FAMILY THINK ABOUT THIS?
YOU HAVE HOW MANY DAUGHTER?
>> I HAVE THREE DAUGHTERS.
>> Woodruff: DON'T YOU WANT TO
SEE YOUR GRANDCHILDREN GROW UP?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
>> Woodruff: BUT YOU'VE PUT
KIND OF A LIMIT ON IT, HAVEN'T
YOU?
>> I AM VERY, VERY COMMITTED TO
SEEING MY GRANDCHILDREN.
WHAT I REALLY CARE ABOUT IS HOW
THEY REMEMBER ME, AND I WANT
THEM TO REMEMBER ME VITAL, DOING
CRAZY THINGS WITH THE KIDS ON
THE SWINGS AND THE SLIDES AND
THE PLAYGROUNDS, MAYBE TAKING
THEM ON TRIPS AND, YOU KNOW,
KAYAKING AROUND THE EVERGLADES
OR IN ALASKA.
I DON'T WANT THEM TO REMEMBER ME
AS FRAIL OR DEMENTED OR
REPEATING MYSELF.
I WOULD THINK THAT WOULD
ACTUALLY BE A TRAGEDY.
>> Woodruff: BUT ISN'T THERE
SOME VALUE IN JUST BEING THERE
FOR FAMILY, WHETHER YOU'RE 75,
85, 95 AND YOUR FAMILY IS AROUND
YOU, ISN'T THERE SOME PERSONAL
VALUE TO THAT?
>> CONNECTION?
>> Woodruff: CONNECTION.
I THINK THERE IS A VERY
IMPORTANT CONNECTION, BUT I
THINK IF YOU'RE JUST CONFINED TO
A CHAIR OR YOU'RE DEMENTED OR
SORT OF VERY SLOW, IT MAY NOT BE
AS MEANINGFUL AS WE TRY TO
PROJECT.
>> Woodruff: ONE LAST THING.
YOU SAID YOU'VE HEARD FROM
DOCTORS, MEDICAL PROFESSIONALS,
A LOT OF PEOPLE WHO ARE VERY
CRITICAL OF WHAT YOU'VE WRITTEN.
WHAT ARE DOCTORS SAYING?
>> I'VE HEARD FROM HUNDREDS IF
NOT THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE NOW.
ONE CATEGORY IS PEOPLE WHO
VIOLENTLY DISAGREE WITH ME ANDT.
ONE CATEGORY OF PEOPLE WHO DO
AGREE WITH ME AND THINK GOT
IT EXACTLY RIGHT, AND ABOUT HALF
OF THOSE PEOPLE ARE IN THE
HEALTH PROFESSIONS.
THEY'RE DOCTORS, NURSES, THEY
WORK AT HEALTH INSURANCE
COMPANIES, HOME HEALTHCARE
AGENCIES.
ALMOST UNIFORMLY, I HAVE BEEN
RACKING MY BRAIN TONK ONE
WHO'S A HEALTH PROFESSIONAL WHO
DOESN'T AGREE WITH ME.
THEY ALMOST UNIFORMLY SAY, YES,
I'M RIGHT.
>> Woodruff: YOU RESERVE THE
RIGHT TO CHANGE YOUR MIND.
>> BY 75, IT REALLY IS A
COMPLETE LIFE.
YOU WILL HAVE GROWN UP, PICKED A
CAREER, WORKED HARD IN THE
CAREER, HAD KIDS, RAISED THEM,
HAD GRANDCHILDREN.
WHAT MORE COULD YOU ASK?
THAT'S A VERY RICH, RICH LIFE.
>> Woodruff: BUT IT'S A NUMBER
THAT COULD CHANGE, RIGHT?
IN 100 YEARS IT COULD BE 85 OR
95.
(LAUGHTER)
>> THERE ARE MANY WHO THINK THAT
WILL BE TRUE I. WE'LL CONTINUE
THIS CONVERSATION ONLINE BUT FOR
RIGHT NOW DR. ZEKE EMANUEL,
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU FOR HAVING ME.
I REALLY APPRECIATE IT.
>> Woodruff: IT'S A VERY TOUGH
TIME TO BE A STUDENT, A TEACHER
OR A PARENT IN THE PHILADELPHIA
PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
THE NATION'S EIGHTH LARGEST
SCHOOL SYSTEM IS EXPERIENCING A
SEVERE BUDGET CRISIS.
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT FOR
EDUCATION JOHN TULENKO OF
LEARNING MATTERS LOOKS AT THE
IMPACT HITTING THE CLASSROOM AND
WHAT'S BEING DONE TO DEAL WITH
IT.
>> Repo:  ABOUT
1,000 NINTH GRADERS MARCHED TO
THE FOOTBALL FIELD AT NORTHEAST
HIGH SCHOOL FOR A VERY DIFFERENT
KIND OF KICKOFF CEREMONY.
(CHEERING)
>> WE ARE DOING A MOCK
GRADUATION.
IT'S AN OPPORTUNITY FOR OUR
INCOMING NINTH GRADE CLASS TO
MAKE A COMMITMENT.
>> WE WANT TO PUT THE NEW JERSEY
THEM THAT THEY PROMISE THEY WILL
BE RIGHT BACK HERE IN JUNE 2018.
>> Reporter: BUT HANGING OVER
THE CEREMONY AND THE ODDS
STUDENTS WILL GRADUATE IS A
BUDGET CRISIS CALLED THE WORST
IN THE COUNTRY.
NORTHEAST HAS 3,000 STUDENTS AND
TWO PRINCIPALS.
SHARON AND LINDA.
>> IN PAST YEARS, OPERATING
BUDGETS WERE PROBABLY TEN TIMES
WHAT
>> EVERYTHING THAT MAKES THE
SCHOOL RUN -- BOOKS, SUPPLIES,
TONER, INK, PAPER.
>> LAB EQUIPMENT, TEXTBOOKS,
TECHNOLOGY.
>> Reporter: HOW DO YOU PAY
FOR ALL THAT STUFF?
>> YOU DON'T.
YOU DON'T HAVE IT.
THIS IS WHAT WE'RE SAYING, WE
CAN'T BECAUSE THERE'S NO MONEY
TO PAY FOR IT.
>> Reporter: ACROSS THE
DISTRICT, IT'S NOT JUST PAPER,
TEXTBOOKS AND TONER THAT HAVE
BEEN CUT.
JESSICA RAMOS IS PRINCIPAL AT
STERN ELEMENTARY.
WHAT HAVE YOU LOST IN THE
SCHOOL?
>> WE'VE LOST A FULL-TIME NURSE.
WE USED TO HAVE TWO COUNSELORS,
WE NOW HAVE A .5, A COUNSELOR
FOR TWO TO THREE DAYS.
>> Reporter: MS. RAMOS IS
PRINCIPAL AND COUNSELOR AND SOME
DAYS MORE.
>> I'M THE NURSE MONDAYS,
WEDNESDAYS, FRIDAYS.
>> Reporter: DO YOU HAVE ANY
MEDICAL TRAINING?
>> NO, BUT I AM A NURSE THREE
DAYS A WEEK.
>> Reporter: WHAT CAN'T WE DO
BECAUSE YOU'RE DOING THESE OTHER
JOBS?
>> WHAT I CAN'T DO BECAUSE I
CAN'T GET INTO CLASSES TO HELP
TEACHERS REALLY DEVELOP THEIR
EFFECTIVENESS AND THAT'S THE
HEART OF THIS JOB.
>> Reporter: THE STORY OF HOW
MS. RAMOS AND OTHER ARRIVED AT
THIS POINT BEGAN IN 2009 WHEN
THE DISTRICT WAS WHIP-SAWED BY A
GREAT RECESSION WHICH CREATED A
$120 MILLION BUDGET SHORT FALL
FOLLOWED BY A WINDFALL.
>> WE'RE MAKING THE LARGEST
INVESTMENT IN EDUCATION IN OUR
NATION'S HISTORY.
>> Reporter: HALF A BILLION
DOLLARS IN FEDERAL STIMULUS
MONEY.
>> WE NEED TO FUND
ADMINISTRATORS.
YOU KNOW, THEY FELT FOR THE
FIRST TIME THEY WERE ABLE TO DO
THE THINGS THEY ALWAYS WANTED TO
DO.
>> Reporter: FOR MARK WHO
CHRONICLED THE DISTRICT'S
FINANCIAL STRAITS, THE SUDDEN
INFUSION OF FEDERAL DOLLARS SET
THE STAGE OF GREATER CRISIS.
>> THEY PUT IN VARIOUS PROGRAMS,
HIRED TEACHERS.
FROM THEIR PERSPECTIVE,
EVERYTHING WAS TEMPORARILY GOOD.
BUT IT WAS A WILEY COYOTE
MOMENT.
ONCE THE STIMULUS DISAPPEARED
THEY LOOKED DOWN AND THERE'S
NOTHING BUT AIR.
>> Reporter: SHORT
$300 MILLION, PHILADELPHIA
SCHOOLS WERE BLINDSIDED BY WHAT
HAPPENED NEXT.
>> I WILL DEDICATE THE NEXT FOUR
YEARS TO FISCAL DISCIPLINE AND A
RESPONSIBLE, LIMIT GOVERNMENT.
>> Reporter: IN 2011, A NEW
GOVERNMENT, TOM CORBIN, A
CONSERVATIVE REPUBLICAN FACED
WITH HIS OWN STATE BUDGET
DEFICIT REFUSED TO MAKE UP FOR
THE LOSS AND IN FACT CUT
HUNDREDS OF MILLIONS IN
EDUCATION FUNDS STATEWIDE.
THE PHILADELPHIA SCHOOL DISTRICT
SLASHED ITS WORKFORCE BY 17% AND
BORROWED SOME $400 MILLION.
>> YOU CAN'T USE ONE-TIME MONEY
FOR ONGOING EXPENSES.
IT'S FRAUGHT WITH DANGER.
BECAUSE IF YOU USE THAT MONEY TO
FINANCE ONGOING EXPENDITURES,
ONCE THAT MONEY IS GONE YOU
STILL HAVE THE ONGOING
EXPENDITURES BUT THERE'S NO
LONGER A POT OF GOLD TO FUND IT.
>> Reporter: HAS THIS DISTRICT
BORROWED IRRESPONSIBLY?
>> NO QUESTION ABOUT IT.
>> Reporter: WILLIAM HIT,
FORMER SUPERINTENDENT OF
SCHOOLS, TOOK OVER, CLOSING 2
DOZEN SCHOOLS AND ELIMINATING
5,000 JOBS.
>> YOU CUT SOME OF THE ASSISTANT
PRINCIPALS, SOME OF THE
COUNSELORS, SOME OF THE
INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE IN THE
CAFETERIA OR IN HALLWAYS.
AND WE TRY TO MAKE THOSE CUTS
FIRST AS FAR AWAY FROM SCHOOLS
AS POSSIBLE, BUT OUR LARGEST
GROUP OF EMPLOYEES ARE
INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE WORKING IN
SCHOOLS.
>> Reporter: SCHOOLS LIKE
NORTHEAST HIGH SCHOOL, WHICH IN
THE LAST THREE YEARS HAS BEEN
FORCED TO LET GO OF 12 TEACHERS.
THE RESULT?
LARGER CLASS SIZES OVERALL.
BETWEEN 35 AND 40 STUDENTS.
AND IN SOME CASES MORE.
THIS IS NINTH-GRADE BIOLOGY,
PACKED WALL TO WALL WITH 62
STUDENTS.
>> I HAVE NEVER SEEN A CLASS
LIKE THIS BEFORE.
SO HOW ARE YOU GOING TO TEACH?
>> I HAVE TO FIND A STAIRWELL
THAT WILL LEAD TO THE CLASS
FAST.
IT'S HARD.
>> Reporter: HOW DOES THIS
MAKE YOU FEEL?
>> ANNOYED.
IT SLOWS DOWN THE CLASS SO
NOBODY CAN LEARN AND MAKES IT
HARDER TO PAY ATTENTION THAT YOU
CAN'T EVEN GET A DESK TO SIT IN.
>> Reporter: NICOLE IS
THE TEACHER.
IT LOOKS HARD.
>> IT IS.
I TRY TO DO A LAB WITH THEM AND
IT WAS EXTREMELY DIFFICULT
BECAUSE SO MANY OF THEM WANTED
HELP AND WEREN'T SURE OF WHAT TO
DO AND YOU CAN'T GIVE YOUR
ATTENTION TO 30 PAIR OF
STUDENTS.
>> Reporter: DESPITE ALL THE
CUTBACKS, PHILADELPHIA STILL
FACES AN $81 MILLION BUDGET
SHORTFALL, A DEFICIT FOR WHICH
THE DISTRICT IS OFTEN BLAMED.
>> WHAT YOU HEAR IS IT'S
PHILADELPHIA'S PROBLEM, THEY
SPEND TOO MUCH MONEY, THEY HAVE
A STRONG TEACHER'S UNION, THE
TEACHER'S SALARIES ARE TOO HIGH,
THEY NEED TO GET THEIR ACT
TOGETHER, THAT'S THE PROBLEM.
BUT WE CONCLUDED, ON THE
EXPENDITURE SIDE, THEY'RE NOT
OUT OF LINE AT ALL.
IN FACT, THEY'RE LOW.
IT'S THE REVENUE SIDE.
WE HAVE A STATE THAT'S
RELATIVELY MISERLY IN TERMS OFFO
ANY OF THE SCRICTS,
LIKE THE NINTH LOWEST STATE.
>> Reporter: RECENTLY.
AFTER ELEVEN MONTHS OF
WRANGLING, STATE LAWMAKERS
PASSED A CIGARETTE TAX THEY
EXPECT WILL CLOSE THE GAP AND
STAVE OFF ANOTHER ROUND OF
LAYOFFS THIS FALL.
BUT IT RESTORES NONE OF THE CUTS
AT SCHOOLS LIKE NORTHEAST HIGH.
>> Woodruff: UNEMPLOYMENT AT THE
LOWEST LEVEL OF PRESIDENT
OBAMA'S TIME IN OFFICE, THE
RESIGNATION OF A SECRET SERVICE
DIRECTOR, AND THE ONE-YEAR
ANNIVERSARY OF THE ROLLOUT OF
healthcare.gov.
IT'S ALL IN ANOTHER BUSY WEEK IN
POLITICS.
AND HERE TO ANALYZE IT, AS
ALWAYS, ARE SHIELDS AND BROOKS,
THAT'S SYNDICATED COLUMNIST MARK
SHIELDS AND NEW YORK TIMES
COLUMNIST DAVID BROOKS.
>> Woodruff: WELL COME.
I HAVE TO SAY FIRST BEFORE I ASK
YOU ABOUT ANY OTHER STORIES,
THAT WAS AE DISCOURAGING
REPORT ON THE SCHOOLS IN
PHILADELPHIA.
>> YEAH, WELL, I'M PRETTY SURE
SPENDING IN PLACES LIKE THAT IS
MODERATELY HIGH BUT IF YOU HAVE
62 KIDS SITTING ON A WINDOW
SILL, NONE OF US WOULD SEND OUR
KIDS IF WE HAD A CHOICE TO A
SCHOOL LIKE THAT.
>> Woodruff: THAT'S RIGHT.
THIS EBOLA STORY HAS EVERYONE'S
ATTENTION.
THE WHITE HOUSE SAYING THIS IS A
NATIONAL SECURITY PRIORITY AS
IMPORTANT AS ANY THREAT WE'RE
FACING.
HOW CONFIDENT SHOULD WE BE THAT
THE COUNTRY IS PREPARED TO DEAL
WITH THE THREAT?
>> I SHOULD SAY PEOPLE SHOULD BE
REASONABLY CONFIDENT.
IF YOU LOOK IN AFRICA IN THE
COUNTRIES WHERE IT WAS HIT, IT'S
A PERFECT INDICATOR OF THE
QUALITY OF THE HEALTHCARE
INFRASTRUCTURE SYSTEM.
IF YOU HAVE COUNTRIES LIKE
LIBERIA, SIERRA LEONE, THEY HAVE
NO INFRASTRUCTURE OR SYSTEM IN
PLACE.
PREEXISTING EBOLA, THEY DON'T
HAVE THE DOCTORS, THE
PHARMACEUTICALS, THE BEDS, AND
THERE IT SPREAD.
BUT IF YOU LOOK AT THE COUNTRIES
WHERE THEY ACTUALLY HAVE AN
INFRASTRUCTURE AND A COMMAND AND
CONTROL STRUCTURE LIKE NIGERIA
AND IVORY COAST, THEY'VE DONE A
REASONABLY GOOD JOB.
I HAVE TO ASSUME BECAUSE WE HAVE
PROBABLY ONE OF THE BEST
INFRASTRUCTURES, WE WON'T LOOK
LIKE LIBERIA, WE'LL LOOK LIKE
NIGERIA OR BETTER.
>> Woodruff: IT'S A BALANCING
ACT, ISN'T IT?
>> TECHNOLOGY IS IMPORTANT AND I
THINK THE GROUP TODAY WAS
REASSURING.
I THOUGHT IT PROJECTED
CONFIDENCE.
ANTHONY FAUCI IS THE EMBODIMENT
OF THE PROFESSIONAL PUBLIC
SERVANT IN A VERY REAL SENSE AND
I THOUGHT WHAT HE SAID WAS
REASSURING IN CONFIDENCE
BUILDING AND THERE'S REASON TO
BE CONFIDENT IN THE HEALTHCARE
LEADERSHIP, I BELIEVE.
>> Woodruff: WELL, AT ONE
POINT, WE HEARD HIM SAY, WE'RE
GOING TO HAVE TO KEEP SAYING
THESE THINGS DAY AFTER DAY AND
MAKE SURE EVERYBODY UNDERSTANDS
THAT.
ALL RIGHT, SO, AGAIN, WE WANT TO
TALK ABOUT TODAY'S UNEMPLOYMENT
NUMBERS.
DAVID, FOR THE FIRST TIME IN, I
GUESS, SINCE 2008, THE
UNEMPLOYMENT RATE IS UNDER 6%.
THE WHITE HOUSE IS SAYING OVER
10 MILLION JOBS ADDED UNDER
PRESIDENT OBAMA.
HE SAID TODAY JOB GROWTH ON PACE
FOR ITS STRONGEST, I GUESS,
RECORD OF GROWTH SINCE THE
1990s.
SHOULD HE BE GETTING MORE
CREDIT?
>> NO, NOT EXACTLY.
YOU KNOW, THERE'S THIS -- I DO
NOT THINK PRESIDENTS HAVE MUCH
TO DO WITH THE CYCLICAL UPS AND
DOWNS OF THE ECONOMY.
THERE ARE EXTRAORDINARY MOMENTS
WHEN THEY DO, AND THE STIMULUS
PACKAGE, WHETHER YOU LIKE IT OR
NOT, PROBABLY HAD AN IMPACT AND
PROBABLY AMELIORATED THE EFFECT
OF THE RECESSION.
BUT I DON'T THINK OVER THE
NORMAL COURSE OF TIME PRESIDENTS
HAVE AN EFFECT ON MONTH TO MONTH
OR QUARTER TO QUARTER OR YEAR TO
YEAR CYCLICAL STUFF THAT GOES
ON.
THERE'S A LOT OF STUFF GOING ON
IN THE ECONOMY.
FIRST OF ALL, NOT A LOT IS
HAPPENING IN WASHINGTON TO
CREATE OR RESTORE JOBS.
WE HAVE BEEN STAGNANT HERE.
THE SECOND THING THE PRESIDENT
SAID IN HIS SPEECH WAS THE
ENERGY SECTOR, THE FRACKING AND
THE MANUFACTURING JOBS THAT'S
CREATED.
THAT'S NOT BEEN CHAMPIONED BY
HIS ADMINISTRATION OR WASHINGTON
IN PARTICULAR, THAT'S SOMETHING
THAT JUST HAPPENED AND SURPRISED
EVERYBODY THROUGH IMMENSE
TECHNOLOGICAL ADVANCE AND OUR
ABILITY TO GET NATURAL GAS AND
OIL OUT OF THE GROUND.
SO THAT'S IN THE PRIVATE SECTOR.
SO I DON'T THINK THIS IS SORT OF
A WASHINGTON ORGANIZED THING.
WE HAVE AN ECONOMY THAT
FUNCTIONS AS AN ECONOMY.
>> THE LATE AMERICAN AMBASSADOR
ONCE SAID THE PARTY THAT TAKES
CREDIT FOR THE SUNSHINE SHOULD
NOT BE SURPRISED WHEN IT GETS
BLAMED FOR THE RAIN, AND I THINK
THERE'S GREAT TRUTH OF THAT IN
OUR POLITICS.
ANYBODY WHO WATCHED KEN BURNS,
14 HOURS ON THE ROOSEVELTS,
WOULD BE HARD PRESSED TO SAY
PRESIDENTS DON'T MAKE AN
ENORMOUS BUSINESS.
WITHOUT THEODORE OR FRANKLIN
ROOSEVELT THIS COUNTRY'S ECONOMY
WOULD HAVE BEEN MEANER, COARSER,
MORE OLIGARCHIAL AND A LESS
PASSIONATE AND MORE PROSPEROUS
SOCIETY.
WEEK TO WEEK, BARACK OBAMA HAS
BEEN BLAMED FOR WHAT HE
INHERITED.
THERE'S NO QUESTION, I AGREE
WITH DAVID COMPLETELY, THAT THE
ACTION TO CONFRONT THE ECONOMIC
CRISIS, THE FINANCIAL CRISIS HE
INHERITED SAVED THIS ECONOMY,
AND THE FACT THAT THE UNITED
STATES ECONOMY HAS CREATED MORE
JOBS THAN ALL OF EUROPE AND THE
DEVELOPED WORLD AND JAPAN SINCE
THAT TIME IS AN ACCOMPLISHMENT.
BUT AT THE SAME TIME, T
ECONOMY GROWING IS NOT LIKELY
SHARED.
BETWEEN 2010 AND 2013, 90% OF
AMERICANS SAW THEIR ACTUAL
INCOME GO DOWN, THE BOTTOM 90%.
THE TOP 10%, THAT WAS ALL THE
GROWTH.
THE MEDIAN FAMILY INCOME IS
LOWER BY ACTUAL DOLLARS THAN IN
1989.
SO THIS IS SOMETHING THAT
STARTED LONG BEFORE BARACK OBAMA
GOT THERE.
BUT THAT'S THE REASON I THINK
PEOPLE FEEL BAD.
YOU CAN LOOK AT THE BIG NUMBERS
AND THEY LOOK TERRIFIC, BUT WHEN
PEOPLE -- YOU HAVE THREE INCHES
OF WATER IN YOUR CELLULAR AND
SOMEBODY SAYS, LOOK, THERE'S
ONLY AN INCH AND A HALF THERE
NOW, ISN'T IT BETTER?
WELL, YOU'VE STILL GOT WATER IN
THE CELLULAR.
CELLAR.
THAT'S THE THING ABOUT THE
ECONOMY.
>> Woodruff: YOU HEARD PAUL
SOLMAN TALK TO IT.
>> MARK AND I AGREE ON THIS AND
MAYBE DISAGREE LESS THAN IS
OBVIOUS WHICH IS THERE ARE
STRUCTURAL FACTORS IN THE
ECONOMY WHICH THE GOVERNMENT
CLEARLY CONTROLS.
IF THE NEW DEAL HADN'T HAPPENED,
THE WHOLE STRUCTURE OF THE
AMERICAN ECONOMY WOULD BE
DIFFERENT.
THEN CYCLICAL FACTORS AND WE'RE
IN A JOB UPSURGE, AND THAT'S
MORE CYCLICAL.
BUT AT SOME POINT IN AMERICAN
HISTORY, IT SEEMS THE STRUCTURAL
FACTORS ARE MORE GERMANE, MORE
IMPORTANT AND BITING.
IN THE INDUSTRIAL PERIOD, THEY
WERE DEEPLY BITING WHEN THE
INDUSTRIALIZATION CAME IN.
THE WAGE STAGNATION NOW, THE
LACK OF JOB SECURITY, THE
WIDENING INEQUALITY, THOSE ARE
STRUCTURAL PROBLEMS THAT ARE
DEEPLY BITING AND YOU DO NEED
GOVERNMENT TO ADDRESS THAT SORT
OF THING.
SO IT'S WORTH PARSING OUT THE
INTERCONNECTED PARTS OF THE
ECONOMY.
THE HURT NOW IS BECAUSE OF A BAD
STRUCTURE.
>> Woodruff: YOU MAY CELEBRATE
A FEW SECONDS BUT ESSENTIALLY
CAN'T REALLY BE PLEASED UNTIL
THE PROSPERITY IS M WIDELY --
>> AND I ADMIT IT'S A GOOD
POINT.
AFTER WORLD WAR II AND THE
GOLDEN ERA OF AMERICA, 9 PO% OF
THE ECONOMIC GROWTH -- 90% OF
THE ECONOMIC GROWTH WAS SHARED
BY WAGE INCREASES OF THE
WORKERS.
THAT HAS JUST ENDED.
IT SLOWED DOWN.
RIGHT NOW, JUST ONE LITTLE
STATISTIC THAT THREW ME FROM THE
FEDERAL RESERVE, WHEN RONALD
REAGAN WAS PRESIDENT, THE GREAT
CONSERVATIVE, THE TOP
CONTROLLED 44% OF THE WEALTH OF
THE COUNTRY IN.
BARACK OBAMA'S SECOND TERM, THE
MAN HAS BEEN CALLED A SOCIALIST
BY CRITICS AND ENEMIES, THE TOP
3% CONTROLLED 54% OF THE
NATION'S WEALTH.
THE REST HAS JUST A QUARTER WHEN
HAY THAWHEN -- THEY HAD A THIRD.
SO IT'S THE RICH GETTING RICHER.
>> Woodruff: THEN WHAT DOES
CAPITALISM LOOK LIKE?
>> THIS IS CALIN YOU
HAVE A HIGH-TECH LOGICAL
TURNOVER.
PRESIDENT OBAMA HAS BEEN 40% ON
THE ECONOMY FOR A YEAR.
THAT STUCK THERE.
THE PRESIDENT OF FRANCE, HE SAID
LIKE 9%.
SO THESE STRUCTURAL PROBLEMS ARE
HITTING POLITICIANS ALL ACROSS
THE DEVELOPED WORLD.
>> Woodruff: I WANT TO ASK
WHETHER THIS WILL HAVE ANY
EFFECT ON THE ELECTIONS.
YOU'RE SAYING IT DOESN'T HELP
THE DEMOCRATS.
HEALTHCARE LAW CELEBRATED THE
ANNIVERSARY OF ITS -- OF THE
EXCHANGES BEING CREATED THIS
WEEK.
IS IT AS BIG AN ISSUE, AS
DAMAGING FOR DEMOCRATS AS
REPUBLICANS SAID IT WAS?
YOU CAN ROLL ALL THIS TOGETHER.
AND I WANT TO SAVE TIME FOR THE
SECRET SERVICE.
MARK.
>> IT'S UNPOPULAR.
IT HAS BEEN UNPOPULAR SINCE THE
ROLLOUT AND ALL OF THE PROBLEMS
ATTENDED TO IT.
IT NEVER REGAINED POP
PARTICULARITY.
BUT THOSE WHO ARE AGAINST IT ARE
AGAINST IT AND IT'S NOT AN
ORGANIZING PRINCIPAL OF THE
ELECTION OF 2014, AS, FOR
EXAMPLE, THE OPPOSITION OF THE
WAR OF IRAQ WAS IN 2006, WHICH
GENERATED TURNOUTS AND RESULTED
IN TURNOUT WHEN HE CONTROLLED
CONGRESS.
THE POSITIONS ARE HARDENED ON
HEALTHCARE AND THE PROBLEM IS
THE ELECTION HAS BEEN DETERMINED
IN RED STATES WHERE ITSES
POPULAR.
>> I HAPPEN TO THINK IT DID
BETTER THAN I THOUGHT, BUT
POLITICALLY NOT A WINNER.
>> Woodruff: BETTER THAN YOU
THOUGHT IT WAS?
>> I'M NOT SURE IF THIS IS
BECAUSE OF THE LAW, BUT COSTS
ARE GOING DOWN.
HEALTHCARE INFLATION IS
DECLINING.
>> Woodruff: SECRET SERVICE, A
TORRENT OF STORIES OVER THE LAST
FEW DAYS ABOUT BREACHES AT THE
WHITE HOUSE, OVER THE FENCE, A
MAN RAN DEEP INTO THE WHITE
HOUSE, A SHOOTING THERE WE
DIDN'T KNOW ABOUT, A MAN IN THE
ELEVATOR WITH THE PRESIDENT.
THE HEAD OF THE SECRET SERVICE
IS RESIGNED.
WHAT A WAY TO MAKE OF THIS
AGENCY THAT'S SUPPOSED TO BE
PROTECTING THE MOST IMPORTANT
PEOPLE IN OUR GOVERNMENT AND
WHO'S RESPONSIBLE?
>> I FIRST THOUGHT IT WAS AN
OVERREACTION WHEN A GUY GOES
OVER THE FENCE AND GETS INTO THE
EAST ROOM, BUT WHAT'S BOTHERED
EVERYONE IS THE HORRIBLE
MANAGEMENT INFORMATION
AFTERWARDS, NOT CONFESSING, NOT
BEHAVING LIKE A COMPETENT AGENCY
BUT AN INCOMPETENT AGENCY WHEN
YOU HAVE A LOT TO HIDE AND WHEN
YOU BEHAVE THAT WAY PEOPLE WILL
DOUBT YOU.
>> IN 1981 TIM McCARTHY TOOK A
BULLET INTENDED FOR PRESIDENT
RONALD REAGAN BY ASSASSIN.
LARRY PUT HIS THUMB A GUN AIMED
AT PRESIDENT FORD IN SACRAMENTO.
THIS IS THE SECRET SERVICE MOST
OF US HAVE BEEN PRIVILEGED TO
KNOW.
THESE ARE HEROIC PEOPLE.
THIS SOUNDS LIKE SOMETHING OUT
OF AMERICAN PIE OR SPRING BREAK
IN BEHAVIOR.
THE PERFORMANCE WAS AWFUL,
DYSFUNCTIONAL.
THE IDEA THAT THE PRESIDENT'S
DAUGHTER WAS IN THE WHITE HOUSE
BY HERSELF AND NINE SHORTS WERE
FIRED AND THEY DIDN'T FIND OUT
ABOUT IT FOR FOUR DAYS AND
DIDN'T REVEAL IT THAT A MAN
CONVICTED OF ASSAULT IS ON AN
ELEVATOR WITH THE PRESIDENT
PACKING A WEAPON?
I MEAN, THAT'S JUST
DYSFUNCTIONAL.
>> Woodruff: NO WONDER BOTH
THE PRESIDENT AND FIRST LADY ARE
UPSET ABOUT THIS.
THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
PRESIDENT OBAMA'S TOP HEALTH AND
SECURITY ADVISORS ACKNOWLEDGED
GROWING PUBLIC FEARS ABOUT
EBOLA, BUT THEY VOICED
CONFIDENCE THE DISEASE WILL BE
STOPPED.
ISLAMIC STATE MILITANTS CLAIMED
THEY'VE  BEHEADED A FOURTH
HOSTAGE, BRITISH AID WORKER ALAN
HENNING.
AND THE U.S. ECONOMY ADDED
NEARLY 250,000 JOBS IN
SEPTEMBER, AS UNEMPLOYMENT FELL
BELOW 6%.
ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE RIGHT
NOW, THE U.S. PATENT OFFICE
RECEIVES HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS
OF APPLICATIONS EVERY YEAR FOR
NEW INVENTIONS.
WE PULLED SOME OF THE MORE
UNIQUE-LOOKING GADGETS AND MADE
A QUIZ TO SEE IF YOU CAN GUESS
WHAT THEY ARE.
THAT'S ON OUR HOMEPAGE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
AND A REMINDER ABOUT
SOME UPCOMING PROGRAMS FROMLLEA.
GWEN IFILL IS PREPARING FOR
"WASHINGTON WEEK" WHICH AIRS
LATER THIS EVENING.
HERE'S A PREVIEW:
>> Woodruff: OUR APOLOGY.
GWEN WILL BE HERE 8:00 EASTERN.
AND LET ME ALSO TELL YOU ABOUT
WHAT'S GOING ON TOMORROW NIGHT
FOR THE SATURDAY SIGNIFICANT
SEGMENT ON THE PBS "NewsHour"
WEEKEND.
AND WE'LL FIND THAT TOMORROW
NIGHT.
AND WE'LL BE BACK RIGHT HERE ON
MONDAY.
WE WILL BE HERE WITH A LOOK AT
HOW THE ISLAMIC STATE MILITANTS
ARE TREATING WOMEN.
THAT IS THE "NewsHour" FOR
TONIGHT.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
HAVE A GREAT WEEKEND.
THANK YOU AND GOOD NIGHT.